# CAPTURE:
### emma907.github.io
Final Project for Privacy and Media Class

## Statement:
Capture takes a look inside the experience of shopping online. What happens after you hit submit? What can the pieces of information you give away in a simple transaction, such as purchasing a book online, tell the company about you? Joseph Turow discusses the “reshaping of the retail social imaginary” in his article “Making Data Mining a Natural Part of Life”. He considers how companies in the 21st century obsess over getting as much data as they can from the user to create a more complete identity to which they can sell. In order to use this data, companies had to reshape the user and normalize giving away data in exchange for a personalized experience. Capture pushes the 21st century user further. In a look behind the curtain, after the user hits submit, the information they have just freely given away is repeated back to them as a sort of cold, transactional thank you letter from “The Store”. It’s jarring to see how “allowing” the website to access your location can so easily return your exact coordinates, or the accuracy with which your first name can be turned into data about your gender. Capture is meant to make transparent the data aggregation that occurs real time in simple everyday transactions online.

It is recommended that you first experience the work by going directly to the website and inputting your own information. I have also included 3 videos of users interacting with Capture - a meta experience of surveillance. This serves to not only collect more information on users on the online shopping experience, but also to demonstrate the intended function in case of technical failure or browser and screen miscommunications (I accessed the website through Google Chrome, but it should be compatible with Firefox & Safari). For the best experience, access the website through a laptop rather than a mobile device.

## Method:
I created every part of Capture. No template was used, and all code was written by me in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The files are available in a Github repository here: https://github.com/emma907/emma907.github.io
Approaching data aggregation from the perspective of the developer rather than the user was a disturbing experience. The code to determine gender was less than 10 lines when using an easily accessible and free Web AP called “genderize.io”:
Likewise, it took around 10 lines to get the user’s coordinates using Google’s geolocation:
In the process of making Capture, I was struck by how far my own basic web development knowledge was able to take me in terms of getting, storing, and using information from the user. One can only imagine what companies with massive budgets and an army of web developers and software engineers are able to discover with the same input.
